Let me start recording. OK,
so RNN and LSTM are the building Briggs
for another model.
We gonna cover in the next week.
It's called transformer. OK.
This is not the transformer you've seen
in in in the movie,
but now this transformer is a fundamental
model of any large language models, right?
So that if you know how you know the
transformer model, you know how to code.
It and then you know, you know,
we go through the transformer model.
You know the the strength and weakness of
the transformer slash large language
models.
You know why the large language model can
do something and cannot do something and
and if you do have some HR100 ships at
your home or at your company,
you know transformer is not super hard to
code and you can actually train.
From scratch your your.
On larger rangester model so that you can
definitely do that.
So then we we gonna go through the the
transformer model next week and I'm gonna
show you guys how you can connect to the
APIs of different larger models and
prepare for your final project.
So then after next time it will be one
last class. So we talk about.
Really building the model and then.
The the opportunities and the risks of
using AI as you know.
And what people are thinking of AI going
forward?
So then,
so then really like we have two classes
in the future and after that is really
your presentation, right?
So then after that we're we're done.
So then we're pretty close to the end of
end of this semester, OK.
So let me just present.
My slides about RNN.
OK.
Oh so.
As usual it.
Just bumped to the starting point,
so I'm keep updating these stats.
So right now I have 120 slides.
So then I'll eventually upload this one
to the D2L.
So then you have pretty comprehensive.
Understanding of the different neural
networks, right?
Right.
So then today we talk about recurrent
neural networks, right?
OK.
So first of all.
Oh, by the way,
can you guys see the slides?
Yeah.
Yep.
Yeah. Perfect. OK.
So you know we if we use one chart to
represent.
To represent what we have learned.
About neural network.
So any neural network,
including the CNN can be described in
this very small Brig.
Small boxes, right?
And with some arrows.
So this is really a one to one, right?
So then we.
Have some input a color in blue and then
we have some output color in green and
then we do have some hidden.
Layers color in orange.
So then,
although I just use one single box,
it could be like a several different
layers of hidden hidden functions, right?
So then the the vanilla neural network
could be whatever neural network we have
covered before, including CNN.
Are you have one input?
You're you're anticipating 1 output and
that's it.
So then that is how we design those
neural networks so that you have and then
we we can describe it as you have a fixed
size vector as input,
you have a fixed size vector as output,
although the the things of those two
vectors may may be differe.
But eventually you have a oneetomone
relationship, right?
So then the weights and the biases and
and the hidden function are are, are,
are calculated or optimized towards your
input in that blue box.
But that's not really like how humans are
are are thinking of the problems, right?
So then for a very easy example, right?
People are predicting Monday morning
stock market going to be really bad.
The reason is they know what happened
during the weekend.
Right.
So then they know what happened during
the weekend.
They know what happened on Friday.
They know what happened in history.
So then the humans really consider this
is not.
You know, in, in,
in a mathematic mathematical,
the description is the humans do not
believe this chain.
Meaning yesterday has no relationship
with today.
The humans are believing in that and
there is definitely.
Me some influence from yesterday to today.
So that's why you think about whatever
happened tomorrow.
You need to take into account of what
happened today.
What happened to yesterday?
What happened to the day before yesterday?
A lot of information happened in history.
So then all the information in your brain,
you have done some selection.
You have done some processing,
you have done some calculation.
And you mix those signal together.
And that's how you make your your your
own judgment and whether or not tomorrow
stock market going to be great or or or
tomorrow stock market going to be bad.
This is what happened to in your spring.
So then that's why this current vanilla
neural network structure 121 will not
work for for these kind of problems and
and also right.
So then in in humans communication when I
was talking about OK.
Hey, guys.
What's your comment?
What's your feedback on Sam's
presentation and and Ben, you,
you gave me your your feedback, right,
so then?
Gave me your feedback.
You're not only taking into account my
question, right?
So then you you didn't only answer my
question. You're also taking into account.
Sam's presentation,
all 25 slides of his presentation and how
Sam presented and and you already made
your judgment.
You know,
sentiment judgment of Sam is really.
Loving his work.
And then you take into account of perhaps,
right Eric's introduction and who said it
and then you may also take into account,
you know, his role.
He's acao and also he's a managing
partner.
And then also you may take into account
of that Parker Avery Company is doing a
consulting work.
So then you you actually makes a lot of
historical information.
To gather and then you.
You make whatever your feedback your
comment right.
So then this is really how human process
information a lot of information gonna be
running into your brain sequentially and
you process those information and then
you you eventually have your your your
output from your model running in your
brain and and and and and that output
could.
Be I like this presentation.
I do not like this presentation.
That's a classification result.
And that output could be.
I like this presentation because.
3-4 sentences.
So those are not only one results,
it's a list of following results.
So so that is what is lacking from or
missing from all current models.
Say we have tree models and tree models
cannot do that.
Cannot do what I just described.
We have neural network.
For now, we have CNN.
It cannot do whatever I just said.
We have time series.
Time series can help with the stock price
example. However,
the the time series model cannot take
into account of, you know,
the policy changes.
You know the different different
sentiment rating of the those policies,
right?
So that so they can now take into account
those.
So there is no model can really take into
account of.
Different kind of historical information.
So that's why.
The RNN is designed to solve those
problems, right?
So then so then,
RNN definitely offered a lot of
possibilities and that is why RN is the
fundamental model of all the larger large
language models that we are using.
OK.
So what?
What can RN do so RN can do oneetom many
right?
So then you have a you you gave me a
picture.
And then RN can detect not only one
target but you name it.
You can.
I can detect all different target in that
picture.
Say you know you see my I presenting
right.
So then you seeing this slide.
So then if you run this slides through
RNN,
so RNN can identify there's a market
university logo and there's there's a one
chart for for one to one,
there's another chart for one to many.
So then sometimes it's never going to be
1 to one relationship,
and you can definitely do one too many
and you can also do many to one.
So one example of for for many to one
case it will be, hey,
I talk about whatever I just said about
you heard about Sam Sam's presentation.
So then eventually you you can have one
answer, right.
Do I like it?
Do I not like it?
So then that's already.
Manu to one sentiment.
Analysis Answer right.
So then all the input the blue boxes,
the inputs could be send slide what is
sent role and how send present and and
Sam's company.
So those are the input through those
boxes you know they just prod you your
brain process and or RN can process it.
Eventually give you one final answer.
I like it.
I do not like it.
OK.
And then can deal with many to many,
right?
So then,
is it really a sequence to sequence
translation problem, right?
So then say if I want to translate Sam's
presentation to different languages,
for example to, to to Spanish,
so that will be English to Spanish
translation and then and then to have a
better translation.
You wouldn't really do a word to word
translation.
You want to do a sequence or sentence to
sentence translation.
Because, you know, sometimes you know,
because of a grammar difference because
of the way how they express are so,
so different and also the grammar
difference could be like in English.
You you,
we we usually say I do something right.
So then in different languages for
example in.
Japanese It will be something I do.
So then you really do.
Cannot do.
A word to word.
Preserving location.
Position of that word kind of translation.
You really need to convert those English
words into Japanese words,
and then you have to rearrange it to make
sure they follow the Japanese grammar.
Right.
So then that is a really a sequence to
sequence translation,
but for the sequence or sequence
translation you still have to have I do
something as your input.
It will be this blue box will be I.
This blue box will be two.
This blue box will be.
Something and then you have to have those
translated into the corresponding
Japanese words.
So it could be like 3 words.
But it also could be two words.
So then and also you have to adjust the
position or the position.
Of the words to follow the Japanese
grammar.
So that is something that RA can offer
and can definitely do for you, K.
Another one is is many too many
indifferent,
you know sequence to sequence translation.
At least I'm following what my input is
because I do something.
The Japanese version of I do something.
This is definitely corresponding to my
input,
but RN can do another thing is I can ask
you a question.
Did you do that?
And then your answer will be yes, I did.
Or no, I didn't.
So so this is really my output.
Has nothing to do with translating my
original question.
My my my output will be really following
my original question.
I'm doing the next word prediction so
that will be another thing that RNN can
offer as well.
And then we I'm gonna show you one
example and how to build that model.
In Excel, right?
So then,
so then offer a lot of opportunities.
So that's why RNN is so popular and
powerful now,
but is ran really a perfect model.
Of course not.
Because if it were a perfect model,
we do not have our LSTM,
we do not have the transformer,
but at least our an opened the real AI
door for all human beings, OK.
So typically those are the cases RN can
offer can do already,
but a lot of optimization and structure
optimization structure change work has
done in LSTM and in transform.
OK.
So here is a math formula.
So you have X.
Eventually you have ay OK.
So this is really like simplify those
cases you have seen in these slides.
I just say, hey,
I just combine all the green together.
I call it Y.
I combine all the hidden layers together.
I call it hidden layer and then I combine
all the blue boxes together.
I call it X.
So that's why you do have.
A curl.
Kind of error here.
So then I have.
X are you gonna replace this hidden layer?
A lot of refresh this hidden layer a lot
of times.
Like this I will reuse of the hidden
layers for example.
The the example will be you heard a lot
of words from Sam's presentation.
I.
I we we build a product.
We do this.
We build that when you when you heard we
build a product,
you definitely have a feeling store in
this. I'm sorry,
store in this first orange box and then
you also.
Heard. OK, I I did.
I apply this algorithm on one company you
have another.
Refresh of feeling of how you like or not
like his presentation. And then you heard,
OK.
I did this for a company wide and then
you know what?
That improved RI by whatever percent,
and then you keep refreshing your memory
of whatever you heard using this
sentimental analysis example, right?
So then every time you receive new
information sequentially.
Come to your brain, you refresh.
Your your feeling, your your,
your impression of of that information
coming into your brain.
So that is what those those H of T.
H of TS are are storing so then H of T is
sort of like you're feeling.
The information you received, right?
So then.
You're refreshing your, your,
your your mind,
and then eventually you use the latest
and greatest or most complete impression
to to do the final judgment.
The final judgment will be I like the
presentation or not.
The final judgment will be you heard
entire question.
Did you do that?
And you heard a question as did and then
you have a feeling of what that person is
asking you.
You have another strong feeling of what
that person asking because you is
targeting yourself.
Do he didn't know he or she didn't know
what I did.
And he's kind of confirming you may have
a lower alarming sense in your mind.
Find that that means,
like he didn't mention a specific thing,
he just basically confirming so that you
you're refreshing your impression of here
in in the process of hearing that
question.
So then in your mind,
you're actually preparing for your answer
to that to that question,
so that H of T is H 0.
Is that person one person come to you?
You may know that person.
You may not know that person.
Let's say you know it.
Know the person he that person is a
teacher.
You already have some memory about this
teacher, either positive or negative.
So now that your starting point so then
you her you have some feeling he or she
asks your first word did you refresh the
feeling based upon that did word and then
the question the second word coming in
you you refresh your impression about
this question based upon.
Your general feeling.
Of that person and the first word deed
and second word you the third word.
Do the first word.
That and the 5th character question Mark.
So you keep refreshing this H of T that
is your impression of the question based
upon your impression of the person and
the question and each word of the
question.
You keep refreshing your feeling your
impression, and eventually.
Your mind based upon the information you
received will generate 1 answer.
He was saying yes, I did that. No,
I didn't.
Or maybe a following question.
Did you mean another specific thing?
So this is really a mimicking of your
your thought process and H of T is really
some memory feeding impression those kind
of.
Quote UN quote memory in your mind.
This is a really mimicking that kind of
concept.
Input is input and then H of T is.
Representing or mimicking.
Those kind of unknown like feeling or you
know you,
you definitely feel like you have a
different heartbeat and that kind of
nervousness in your mind.
This is really how we design how the
scientist design this.
HFT just really mimic that and then
eventually you receive the entire
information.
You do have your feeling you can have a
feedback answer.
Clarification whatever.
So that is your why?
The Y can be anything, right?
So so here is really the computational
graph I sort of mentioned this.
Let me just repeat it.
Right.
So then H of 0 you can just think of H of
0 is a person come to you?
You know that person if you know that
person,
you do have some feeling of that person.
If you do not know that person H of 0
could be absolutely zero because you have
no engagement with that person before X1
could be the could be the first.
Word coming from that person's mouth.
Did and you don't know that person?
Now you do.
Based upon the first word coming from
that person's mouth,
you definitely gonna have this H1.
Your impression of that person non 0.
But if you do not,
if you do know that person,
you use that first word.
Did to refresh that impression.
Maybe that impression will still remain
the same.
There's no change or there's some change,
but there some new stage of impression we
just.
Recorded as H1.
Now his second word coming from his mouth
or her mouth.
You so now it definitely you do not know
that person.
Now you know that person is targeting you.
You definitely gonna refresh HH1 to H2
more significantly,
but if you do know that person now,
that person said you, you definitely will.
If I were you,
I'll feel like this H2 will be different
to H1, but definitely your.
Using H2 to record another newer or
latest impression of that question based
upon whether or not you know or not know
that person.
Now the third word and in the end,
no matter how many words you heard.
So in the end you have a final impression,
OK.
So then we will assign the weight just
for calculation perspective to.
Different functions and you can just
ignore those different functions as long
as you understand the concept is every
time you heard a word from one person,
you're refreshing your mind.
You're refreshing your brain.
How you think,
how you think of that question coming
from that person?
So in the end you have the final
impression so that every single time you
heard.
Did you will have your preparation to
answer that question.
You heard it.
Did you already make that OK?
I'll automatically say no.
And that's my answer.
You heard a second question.
You heard a second word you that you you
already heard two words, did you?
You will have another answer to call it.
Why 2?
And you receive the third word you heard
a third word.
Do you have your third answer?
So then virtually you have a different
answer based upon the moment you heard
each word from that person.
Right.
So then so then you have different
answers.
So then if you backtrack right,
you have a time machine.
You know,
people always regret I should have said
no,
or I should have said yes or I should
have answered a question in another way.
Just say the way you should have answered
as the correct answer to that question,
and then the the way how you come out
with a not so perfect answer.
At that time.
So then you will have a loss function.
Meaning the difference between the answer
you should have provided versus the
answer you actually provided.
So that difference is something we gonna
use in the training because you want to
give him or her a perfect answer.
If you do have The Time Machine,
you learn all your mistakes in the future,
right?
So then you you want to do that,
so you'll learn all that happens in
history, and then you, you, you,
you optimize this process in the future,
you're gonna have a much better answer to
answer similar questions.
So that's how we train the model.
The same idea how humans are learning
from the historical mistakes, right?
You know,
I hope you know this is how we learn,
right?
So then. But you know,
people still make the same mistake all
the time.
So that's why you know you you need to
spend some time to think of, you know,
the historical historical issues, right?
So then.
Learn from the mistakes, OK?
So this is the process of.
You can just consider this this,
this L as the difference between the
actual answer you provided at the moment
versus.
The answer you should have provided in
the in the ideal case,
they could be the same.
They could be different in case they are,
they are different and you really want to
improve yourself the way how you answer
similar questions and that is the L that
we use to quantify.
By the difference. That is, al.
You're gonna help them out of the real
life.
There's a difference and eventually
optimizes model OK.
Any questions for now? Does it make sense?
OK.
I'll consider silence as a yes.
Makes sense. OK, so.
One is to one is easier,
easier example to explain.
So then X1 will be the first sentence
from Sam's presentation X2 and X3 so that
you refresh whether or not you like that
presentation in H0H1H2H3. Hth zero.
You do not know Sam, so H Zero will be.
Absolute 0.
Vector each one is your heard first
sentence.
You have your sort of feeling of how this
person, what kind of this person is,
and you just refresh that feeling and
eventually you have a final feeling
whether or not you should like it,
whether or not you you do not like it.
So your judgment of.
Yes or no, right?
So then,
but if you do have a time machine,
you you know whether or not that
presentation is so important.
So for example like.
You, you, you.
You heard Sammy's Sam's presentation.
You happen to, you know,
interview at the Park of Avery sometime
in the future. And you,
you you may want to code whatever Sam
mentioned in the presentation and then
you find, Oh my gosh,
I I feel so bad about that presentation
because I don't like this present.
I didn't pay too much attention,
so maybe you think maybe I should have
feeling I should have paid more attention
to that presentation.
So now I can call something.
In my interview,
so this is a moment that there could be
some difference in terms of sentiment or
judgment that you have done in the
history.
So this e-mail to one is mimicking that
right.
So then there's a -, 2,
one example is a oneet mining example.
This is an easier case as well.
So then so one example is you have a
picture,
so you put a picture here you say hey.
AI.
Just detect whatever items that you or
whatever.
How many?
No matter how many people you can detect
in the picture.
Right. Just do. Do it for me.
And then the RN gonna run through the
entire picture to detect all the human
beings based upon you know,
the facial recognition for you and
eventually those are.
The people, definitely AI,
can make some mistakes.
Maybe just identify a picture as a as a
human.
Maybe it identify some other things as
look like a human face as a human.
So then it's not perfect at first run.
So then you have some some loss, right?
So that is one too many.
So sequence to sequence.
Now we relatively more difficult
structure.
So the sequence to sequence is.
I do have so for example like I ask you a
question, right?
So then you want to answer my question.
Right.
So then it's really like a conversation,
right? So then?
For example, like how like you're.
I'm asking this question and then
eventually they receive.
You want to definitely receive this this
or or is really like hey you,
you want to hear the entire presentation.
I ask you for feedback.
So then through this entire.
One process you the only thing you have
done is you just listen. Listen, listen,
listen, listen, Clark. Information.
All the information coming through and
you have the final impression of what
this person is talking about and how this
person is presenting and how he likes his
presentation.
And eventually you use that as an input
to generate your feedback.
You're saying, hey,
I heard everything you're saying.
I do like this personation because.
So this is the -1 and -1 to many
structure coming together as.
The fundamental structure for the
communicational tool.
This is sort of like open AI already,
right?
So then open AI is already like you ask.
You start talking.
Hey, open it.
Like can you do this for me to create a
formula and and generate some something?
So now it's really your running man to
one you send all the information to open
AI to ChatGPT and ChatGPT.
Receive that information in this Gray box
and then it start generating as Y1Y2Y3
and Y whatever.
So they gonna give you the answer
sometime you feel this answer is right.
Sometimes you feel this answer is wrong
because the hallucination and then you're
you're really you use a sum up a sum down
function in the chat GBD to help to open
AI to find fine tune their model to get.
Model more and more accurate.
So this is really like sequence to
sequence structure.
That people are using in in,
in large language models, OK.
So now let me give you one example.
So. So in this example, right?
So then we have let me show you the the
Excel.
MMM.
OK,
instead of sharing this I mean sharing
the entire window.
Gosh.
OK.
OK. Can you see my screen?
What's up?
OK, OK.
Yeah, we can.
Yep.
So now let's see.
We want to train the model for the model
to understand English, right? So then.
The first word I learn in English as a
nonnative speaker is hello, OK.
So that's why we we we teach AI how to
say hello as as well, right.
You know hello world.
So then that that's see.
So then hello as a word, right?
So then HELL right.
It has this word has.
4 letters it's.
HELNO OK.
So then we need to vectorize those
letters, right?
So then we can say hey H as 1E as two.
L as three and O as 4.
You can definitely do that,
but that is not usually how computers are
seeing those things because.
What is 1 + 2 for example H + E?
Should it be 3 which is L?
It's certain isn't right.
So then, because you know you, you, you,
you do not allow that relationship, right?
So then so then that's why.
We're using this kind of way to verify.
The the the letters is really one hot
code in in coding, right?
So then I say, OK H IS1000.
East is is 0100.
L is 0010 and O IS0001OK.
What is my goal?
My goal is I help the machine to learn
the pattern that coming from this.
Hello I want the machine to learn. OK,
a lot of cases.
E as a as a letter is coming after H.
And L usually come come usually is coming
after E and if I do see an Li may see
another L after right?
So then if I see hell,
I'm still typing another letter.
Likely now be. Oh, you know, you, you you.
You know,
there's some out of out of feel out of
feel kind of function in your cell phone
in your smartphone.
You you start typing,
you're just guessing the next letter.
And they're definitely using RNN. OK.
So what I'm doing is go back to this.
I want to use my letter H eventually
going through those kind of super complex
layers eventually to tell the machine the
AI that you know the letter after should
be E, right? So then.
Then I'm using E as an input.
I will teach AI to learn going forward.
The next letter should be L.
And going there.
Not working.
Go on there. I wanna tell AI. OK.
You see another?
You see.
HEL.
Maybe you should guess the next letter.
Next letter also L and then you use.
You ready?
See, you ready. Seeing he,
LL you should guess 0.
That is the goal.
That, you know, you teach hello to AI.
You can teach different words to AI.
You can teach sentences to AI.
And you can teach paragraphs through AI.
And actually this is how it worked.
How people are building those those.
AI models, right?
So then what we were doing is we just use
this structure to teach AI how to spell,
OK.
And then every single time we save those
all different rules of spelling in each
hidden layer HT so.
So, so, so,
so the AI will will start remembering
like.
You see, he. Maybe I should guess. L.
You see hel?
I should guess another L.
Those kind of rules of spelling and then
this is how we we we save those
information in H of T or H under score T.
What does this under score T mean?
Because before you teach AI how to spell.
AI does not know how to spell,
so the original H 0 meaning.
At the beginning,
AI does not know how to spell.
So then H of 0 should be a 0 vector
because AI does not have any preliminary
or any knowledge before.
And then you are starting teaching AI Hel
what different kind of way.
Apple,
those different kind of words to AI.
This H of T or H under score T getting
more and more powerful and then getting
more and more knowledge and more and more
can recognize more and more patterns in
English language or different languages.
So later on you you move this T to 1,000,
000 or one trillion.
You you the AI is really an expert.
How to spell.
Now we are just going from zero to four.
This is a really early stage, right? But.
The concept is.
You can.
You can consider this H of T as the rule
of spelling.
The more words Withrow, the AI to learn,
each by by adding one letter.
So the AI can recognize different
patterns, can learn more and more,
so that is H of T just spelling rules.
There are some calculation and their
calculations are there's a W HH.
So this is a. This is a matrix of weights.
Right,
so the matrix always is saying that OK.
I learned some of.
I learned some of the rules before I I I
I have a letter H.
I have a letter E.
So then this is the this is the the
current knowledge base I have.
So then,
how should I emphasize my historically
learned roles versus the some new rules?
I will be learning in the next second and
this age needs W gonna tell us for
example.
In in,
in in American English you we spell like.
We Seville Center as center.
In this way,
but in the in the British English,
they spell center as this right?
So then if you train the AI based upon
American English.
This Tre kind of pattern should be
deprioritized.
The TER pattern should be should be
prioritized because a lot of times we
change this Tre to in American English.
So that is how this WHA is controlling.
Are we dealing with a British English?
Are we dealing with with the the American
English or Canadian English or different
kind of English?
How much weight should I put on Tre
versus tur since this is how you adjust
the weight of this whh as a matrix?
It's controlling,
it's controlling the weight of historical
knowledge.
Based upon what kind of knowledge you're
learning and.
Really, the knowledge base you have right?
Even the same English language,
you have different weights for WH.
The XT is OK.
Is this a new pattern or just some
existing pattern that everybody know?
No. So then you you, you change that, OK?
And they definitely have a different,
a different dimension.
So then you you can ignore that, I said.
OK, you can cast a dimension,
so this is something that you definitely
gonna use.
You're definitely gonna use a matrix
multiplication, OK?
So let's just go to that process in that
XLS example. OK, so now.
I already have this H1000 as my input.
I'm going to teach AI the 1st letter that
is H.
Before I teach AI, English,
or how to spell AI has no knowledge of
English,
so that's why I say H 0 is a 0 vector.
I know nothing about English.
I gave some random numbers as weight of
the whh as a random number is a random
matrix.
I gave Whx as a random matrix.
I gave this weight as a random matrix.
Those numbers have no meaning,
but just some random numbers.
The reason I gave some random numbers
here is I don't want to show you guys A0
matrix.
It turns out all the numbers are 0.
It does not make any sense.
So then I just give you some random
numbers.
So because AI does not even know any
letter in English so then.
The weight,
although I have some random numbers,
the historical knowledge will be 0 even
if you put the weights on,
this is still nothing, right?
So then I ask some current knowledge to
AI, OK.
I said OK,
here is your historical knowledge.
Here is your new knowledge based upon the
1st letter I teach you.
H This summation of those two is going to
be your knowledge base.
Now this is your knowledge base and then
I will apply a hyperbolic tangent
function to normalize this summation
because later on this summation could be
some big number or small number.
I want all the numbers is within some
same area between 91 and one.
That's why I apply this tangent
hyperbolic tangent function on top of
this.
So then you see those numbers?
What do those four numbers mean?
That means this number is.
First of all,
this is not a zero vector anymore.
You do see some non 0 numbers here.
So that is sort of the current knowledge
base of AI. So AI knew something.
So that's why you have some knowledge
base.
So AI will use that knowledge base and
apply this knowledge base on the weight
here so that you can do some prediction
of what next ladder is.
But you know,
this is the moment I just teach.
AI the first ever letter H.
So and also this weight,
AI didn't even know any pattern before.
So that's why this weights are random
numbers,
so these predictions will be really non
accurate and you can just call it a
nonsense because nothing AI has learned.
So then you applying softmax function.
A soft Max function is basically.
Transferring those numbers, arguably well,
in fact those.
Those are random numbers into
probabilities. As you can see,
just because those are random numbers,
they sort of have the same probability
and I just pick the biggest probability 1
and so you can count is 1234 and then we
have only four letters the 1st.
Letter is H, 2nd letter is E,
3rd letter IS L.
So that my prediction of next.
Letter coming after H will be.
L but you know this is extremely
inaccurate prediction because.
AI just learned one letter,
so you know it's not going to be accurate,
but let's just build a structure.
Let's just put the 2nd letter.
E as the input to AI. So right now,
AI learned one letter now.
It never going to be nothing.
Zero knowledge base AI.
At least it learn one letter H.
So that's why I'm using this new H in
here.
AI learned.
One learner. Now I'm telling AI.
You know what you are going to learn a
new letter that is E and you know what?
And you're learning a new pattern,
that is HE.
O then I'm adding this information E and
notice on this pattern to tell AI.
So then there's a new sum.
And then I still apply this hyperbolic
tangent function on top of this.
So this going to be the new knowledge
base for that AI.
AI refresh the model, refresh your memory.
I have a new knowledge base.
So then I can predict the the 3rd letter
coming after H of E.
H&E.
So that is my next prediction and then
and then this case is L and you gotta
write prediction. However,
you know it's a pure guess from a
probability. You'll know this.
Those four numbers are around 25%.
This is evenly distributed.
We're lucky, it predicts L here.
So that you can build this Hel L for.
In this.
Excel spreadsheet and keep going.
You can have L&L.
You can have all based upon all those
random weights you can have.
Entire structure set up,
but you know I told you all the weights I
did was I just chose random numbers
because I don't want you want to show you
guys 0 vectors 0 results.
So that's why I chose random numbers.
So you may want to ask me, OK,
those are random numbers.
How do I get those?
More accurate weight matrix or more
accurate or optimize the process when I
type L learn from all the information the
AI can guess E as the letter after L.
So this is something we have learned
before and can you guys tell me what is
that process now we can optimize those
waits?
There's a weight matrix.
Weight matrices.
OK.
So the process we can do to optimize
those on those weight matrices is called
something we did last time a back
propagation.
I'm not going to do the back propagation
in this case because this is very
complicated, but eventually after you do,
you apply the back propagation.
In this example you will have this H of
those 3 weight matrices.
Optimized so then with all different.
You you teach AI10 letters or teach AI100
letters and AI.
Gotta getting this those matrices more
and more accurate to.
The human knowledge base by refreshing
this H hidden function hidden layer.
So then you got no AI got no the
different patterns and different letters
and in their knowledge base based upon
those those those those weight matrix.
So that is how we trained the large
language model based upon this RNN model.
OK.
So one thing we have noticed that is.
We have done this weight matrix multiply
this one hard encoded vector.
What is one hard encoded vector?
I told you guys. I say hey,
each is a vector.
There's only one one in that vector.
And E is another vector.
There's only one one in that vector,
and then you know,
this is like identity matrix.
If you still remember, you know algebra.
So then this is called one hot encoded or
one hot encoding.
You see one thing we got this matrix as a
weight matrix.
Multiply this one hot encoded vector.
I'm using H as example letter H as
example. OK,
so then this matrix multiply and this
matrix.
So if you still remember the matrix
multiplication, now be the first row.
Multiplying this column and that will be .
1331 multiplied one and all the three
numbers multiply zeros and then you add
them together. That's why you have.
1331 here.
And then you move to the second row,
you have a -, .
09 and those numbers multiply 1000 and
then you have the 1st.
First number -.0906 and you keep going.
You pretty much you have the one at the
leading number. You have the 1st row.
If you are multiplying.
0100 for example,
the 2nd letter E You will end up having
the second column of this weight matrix.
If you multiply the 3rd letter 0010,
which is the letter.
No,
you end up with the the third column from
this weight matrix.
So we multiply the matrix to the one hard
encoded vector here,
and then we will just basically have the
first, second, third,
fourth column from this matrix.
So this,
weigh the matrix and then those columns
of numbers is actually something we
called in the large langu career model.
That is something called.
Embody.
OK.
The embedding is coming from the weights
from RNN model or different models,
but definitely newer network models that
is called embedding.
So that is why in in in the large
language model we we do not use A1 hub
encoding vectors.
We use the embedding from the weight.
Like this we use for weights so.
What does this embedding vector mean?
What kind of information does it include?
OK.
Remember,
it does include information about what
letter it is.
It does include a pattern.
For example, I have AE.
Eventually,
I teach the AI to learn the pattern of he.
So then this matrix will be totally
different.
Then this matrix will be a really
optimized matrix with all different
pattern.
Recognized so then.
Associate with each letter E in this
matrix multiplication I already have that
pattern being being considered and also I
do have something if I can generalize
this function to not only letters but
different words,
so that I am really gonna have similar
meanings here.
For example, I'm teaching AI how to spell.
Eventually you can.
You know how to spell. You can have you.
You can also do the similar thing to
words you teach AI how to read.
You teach AI.
How to tell?
So then you still can use this one.
How embedding kind of way to start with
you can say.
A as a as a letter I.
I call it A-1000 or a as a word.
I still give it 100.
Zero as A1 hard encoded vector.
And a banana or N.
Banana or an apple so that I can call
Apple.
I give Apple 11 hot encoding vector as a
0100 and banana.
I gave a banana as a 0010.
I just could do this one Hal encoding to
to different words and in fact what I did
and different words I still can run this
entire.
RNN.
Kind of function to predict the network
word instead of next letter.
So then my matrix will be associated with
every single word.
So then I will eventually from the weight
I will learn the patterns of how humans
are creating different sentences and then
why people are using Apple here and Apple
there.
So then why Apple can represent a fruit?
And Apple can represent a brand so so.
Different kind of things.
You will see Apple will have some similar
ways to Banana and Apple also have a
similar way to,
for example Dell as another computer
brand.
OK.
So this is this is a really the the
embedding concept we talk in the in the
AI and then this and you know the
embedding is is 1000 is a vector of 1000
input and this is really a four.
That's because we have only 26 letter.
And then and then in this example we just
use 4 letters,
but for words that you have so many words
in English languages.
So that's why this matrix and can be huge
and that's why another computation
computational limitation here in training
large anchor model is you know you have a
huge matrix you are dealing with a matrix
multiplication and that's how.
That's just basically really
computationally expensive.
OK.
This is really the embedding,
and we're gonna review this next week.
But you know,
this is really where those embeddings are
coming from, OK?
So everything I just covered is
conceptually.
About RNN, if you wanna remember RN,
what RN is doing is it's really the early
stage large language model.
You can do a lot of things.
You can solve a lot of problems when
information is coming in as sequentially,
right?
So then you can take it into account
historical information from a sentence
from a time series,
from information how you captured.
And to conclude something that you gonna
you gonna use as outcome or you gonna use
as output or feedback to the use case.
So that is what already is solving.
And now RA definitely is not a perfect
example,
because the real drawback of RNN is is
here I can tell you is all the different
steps are using the same weight. So then.
You gonna call issue?
Call that vanishing gradient.
Issue in fact propagation.
That's something we will not cover in
this class. Just so you aware,
RNN is definitely not the perfect perfect
model,
but our in definitely open doors AI doors
for for, for human being.
That's why we make so much progress.
Up on top of RNN.
The next one we we learn is the long
short term memory LSTM.
So this is another one more step.
We build AI for machine learning,
more human alike.
OK, let me give you an example.
We just built.
We just we just learning through this
example.
Say you are in a math class.
You're learning algebra.
Right,
so now your teacher is giving you
different problems every single week
because you're learning.
You're learning, right?
So then you're learning from.
Where basic algebra rules to even more
and more difficult algebra rules, right?
So then let's say the first week one you
learn how to solve basic equation like X
+ 3 = 7 and then.
You, you, you, you definitely learn that.
Maybe your first week is actually
learning what equation looks like, right?
So then you you learn how to solve
equation with variables on two sides for
example.
Xbox 3 = 7 -, 2 X, right.
So you learn that and then and then the
six on week six,
you may be learning like a system of
equations, right?
So then you want to solve a system of
equations.
So then every single time moving forward,
you need to remember like all the rules.
But you do not need to remember all the
examples.
Maybe. Well, you know,
technically you can remember maybe one or
two examples.
But teacher gonna gonna give you
definitely more than one or two examples
including homework.
And then for every single rule you may
end up with 12 or 10.
Examples you just need to remember 1
representing 1 and you definitely need to
remember all the rules so that is how we
memorize a lot of things.
So for example,
like in the very last week,
you prepare for your final exam.
You need to recall what you have learned
from Week 1.
You you, you do.
You reread your your slides again.
Reread your note.
You catch, you catch up your, your memory,
you you will do something like this is
something I need to remember.
And this is something that's not going to
be important.
I decide to forget and there's definitely
something that happened to in in Week 1.
For example, which restaurant you went to?
And and which place you went to?
What kind of movie you did and you you
watched.
But those are the information has no
relationship to your final exam,
hopefully.
So now you decide to forgot, I understand.
You decide to forgive strong because
usually human cannot decide to remember
or forgets a lot of things.
But let's say you're you're.
I'm just mimicking like we are we're.
Our brains are working ideally, right?
So then you decide to forgot.
You decide to remember something,
and then you, you, you, you move to umm.
You moved to week two or notes you decide
to add something to the memory.
You catch up from week one.
You want to add something.
Something new in week two to that memory,
and then you want to forget something
happen in Week 2.
This is how you keep going from week one,
week two, week three-week 4.
Blah blah blah.
The most recent week you get yourself
prepared for your final exam.
That's exactly what humans are doing.
I decide what to remember.
I decide what to forget.
I decide.
What's new?
I need to remember every single time you
just do all those three tasks and that is
what LSTM is doing.
It's going to be really complex structure.
You don't have to remember it.
I can just tell you this C.
It's long term memory.
Meaning something you when you review for
your final exam,
you need to keep in your mind.
OK.
And then whenever there's a problem about
that,
you need to know how to solve that
problem.
It's a long term memory, OK,
and every single you once you review
every single week you have that weak
slide, you have something new.
You have something new coming to your
mind.
You need to decide whether or not.
You want to forgot,
so this is a forgott gate meaning.
For that week's note or whatever happened
to the Week 2.
I decide not to remember which restaurant
I went to.
I decide this piece of those examples has
no relationship, is really useless.
I decide to forgot.
So you made those decision to forget a
lot of things happened in Week 2.
That means you're not adding those piece
of memory to your long term memory in
order to prepare for your final exam.
You made that decision 1st and that is
what called for GAT Gate.
And input data is.
In Week 2.
I learned something that is new compared
to week one. I needed to decide.
What is a portion of that new?
I need to keep memory.
For example,
you learn the role that if you have two
X&X on both sides of equation,
you need to move one of those two.
To the same sign,
and you need to change the sign of that
of that component and moving one from one
side to another side.
That is a rule you want to memorize that
rule. However,
there is going to be 5 examples.
You tried moving one variable from one
side to another side and those five
examples you may not want to.
Keep.
So then you say, OK, I keep.
50% of the new things I learn OK.
That is the input.
An output is OK, there's something that.
There was something that I'm doing some
of the exercise and then I just wanna say,
hey,
there's a short term memory and then I
just don't want to keep it going.
But I just wanna keep in pending and
whether or not there's something that I
will immediately do.
It immediately use it and then for
example, I'm just.
I'm just doing some exercise.
That,
and the teacher assigned to me in the
Week 2.
I'm just warming up.
So then I just wanna use that kind of
immediate knowledge.
So then I just wanna keep that kind of
information.
So then this is some like a short term
memory you wanna keep and then just
specifically for that for those.
Umm uh practice questions.
So then you can keep refreshing that
short term memory.
Maybe you move to 3rd week.
You wanna warm up?
You can throw out you can you.
Can you can delete all the short memory
you had for the second week?
Practice problems, but keep adding.
The long term memory for your final exam
because you're you're trying to warm up
through week by week.
So this is really like the long short
term memory kind of structure. OK,
so back to the large language model.
So you know,
people tell you a long presentation like
you guys heard Sam's presentation.
Every single time he present sentence by
sentence.
Every single new sentence he could be
saying, hey, we build a tool.
We we we consider ROI we build a product.
We deal with some use cases.
And you know what?
Those are the long term memory.
I still remember right?
And then every however.
Sam said.
Definitely more than 100 sentences in an
hour, right?
So then there is a lot of things.
Everything you know at the moment we
decide. OK. I just need to forget.
I mean I this makes sense.
I keep in a short memory.
I heard the next sentence.
Oh, I deleted it. Or you know,
this sentence is just basically talking
about his history, not my interest.
I decide to forget.
So every single person,
every single person,
has your own long term memory.
If you ask yourself, OK, what?
What did I hear from?
Sam's presentation, that is your CT.
On top of it.
And every single time you feel well,
it doesn't make sense or I don't like it
or you know why it makes sense.
Let's hear.
Those are the decisions your brain
automatically made for you through those
gates.
Should I forget?
Should I remember?
How much should I remember and how much
should I just keep in pending?
And eventually I just throw it or or or
add it to.
To the to to the long term memory.
That four decision your brain did it for
you.
And you do not even know it.
And in the end, like when I ask you guys,
what's your feedback?
You know,
some of your folks already have some
feedback and that is your long term
memory and you use your long term memory
and and you you have some outputs.
Function and and you you run the RNN you
generate your answer.
And and you use your your your you use
output a device called mouth and you
speed out.
This is the entire process of a human as
a code on call machine.
How your brain is working with your
different parts of your body and give the
answer to make sure all the other humans
will understand.
OK.
So this is the entire process.
It's just right now it's getting this
algorithm getting more and more close.
It's definitely much closer than human
than all the other algorithm we learned
before,
because it can even mimic how to forget
and how to remember OK.
Later on, we build another.
If you feel this is a really complex
structure.
Next week,
the transformer gonna be much more,
much more complex structure compared to
this.
Much more so than you know that we are.
We're adding pieces together and and
getting the machine algorithm,
getting machine algorithm like more and
more closer,
much closer to to human beings.
You you have definitely refreshing.
Your your your hidden layer of how you
understand who you are and how you think
it's. It's a really interesting journey,
OK.
So I think that's it.
That's where rnlstm.
I hope you enjoy it.
And and I didn't give you a lot of Python
code.
You know,
coding problems as long as you understand
this concept, that'll be great.
Remember,
we're building staff by step to guide our
algorithm closer to human being.
So then the way how you think of or
digest information is actually going to
be the way how how AI is digesting or
understanding those information and make
its own.
Quote UN quote output say it's sentiment
analysis.
Say it's a classification.
Say it's generating another sentence.
So this the way how you work in your
brain is going to be the way how AI work
in code and code Ai's chips OK.
I think that's it.
Help me try it.
Thanks professor.
Yep. Thank you.
Enjoy the Monday Monday night.
Thank you.
Yep, bye.
Hi I have a question for the final
project.
Yes.
We were working.
We completed our Python model.
OK, fantastic.
And we had questions about we had
questions about the final.
Is it going to be a presentation or
should we write a paper on it?
How should we proceed with it?
Oh, you, you know, you decide.
I think this is going to be a
presentation.
The final.
The final deliverable right is this.
Definitely later than that presentation,
right?
I I think that's what I said in D2L right?
I hope I did let me see.
Oh.
Give me a second.
Let me check so then you can have the
presentation ready and present.
I I believe you still have time to submit
all the supporting materials and results.
So you need both.
It only says deliverable quality and Team
cross review under the final project.
OK.
So if you, Anish, sorry, and it could be.
Seeing is, umm, agenda right?
So then,
so the final presentation is April 28.
Yes.
Right.
So then the deliverable submission is may
the 5th?
All right.
So we make a presentation out of it and
write a paper about how how we proceeded
with similar to the proposal we we could
talk about what models we selected,
Yep.
why we selected them,
methodology used and what the results
Correct. Yeah.
were.
Yeah, the final presentation.
Let's talk in next week, right?
So then I will just say, hey,
you know every we don't a lot of teams.
So maybe like 15 minutes,
15 minutes presentation,
5 minutes question and that's it.
You know,
it doesn't have to be like 20 slides or
could be just 10 slides. That will be OK.
And then if you wanna make some changes,
All right.
That's yeah.
changes you still have one week to do
that?
All right,
so we make Microsoft PowerPoint
presentation. That's it.
Yes, that's it.
And along with that,
do you need a paper like a Word document
paper about what we did?
That's that's going to be the final
project deliverable.
Alright and.
OK, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll.
I'll define it in a better way.
I'll we we talk about this next time, OK?
All right.
And lastly, I have a question about.
The grading structure as well.
OK.
So.
Yes.
For Azima grad student.
So there are going to be 6 assignments,
each worth.
Since it's made at 30% each are going to
be like five, five points each.
The reason why I ask.
Because I have to travel for work,
the for the next two weeks and I might
Oh really?
You have to.
not.
I might not be able to deliver the
quality of assignment I wanted to,
so I just wanted to see what the grading
skill is going to be.
If I don't meet the requirement.
Oh, OK.
So that additional one for grad student,
that one I cannot drop,
but for the other like for the combined
Yeah.
group that one of those six or five will
I will drop one the lowest, yeah.
All right.
Because if I don't perform that well on
the grad one,
I I'll still be able to have a good grade.
If if it's graded out of it's still
weight 30% and it's not gonna change the
30% weight, right?
I I won't change the 30% weight, but.
See I I how I consider this system is
that is not based upon your final.
Number wise or percentage wise kind of
number, right?
So then it's really like I need to
confirm with with the finance department,
right? Whether or not we can have,
I I'm pretty sure we can have everyone a
I think right, so then?
Yep.
Eventually,
some person has to be like B or something.
I don't know if I can say everyone is B
plus or anything like that.
It's really like I need some policy.
I need to learn so eventually it really
have to be like your position in your
peers, right?
Other classes great.
They they don't like require everyone.
They they give everyone is if they have
the same quality of work.
Well, this is something I need to.
I need to confirm because one example is
I'm not quite familiar with the Marquette
All right.
University kind of policy.
What I can comment is Chicago policy is
OK if everyone got 99, right?
So then #1 teacher has to say hey,
some of them has to have like for example
Ninetyseven 9899.
So then 979899.
So you Chicago has a policy that the
average.
Letter grade has to be B plus.
All right.
So then that means like 97 going to be B.
There's no such policy area,
but they like give out X and everything
here.
Yeah.
I I just that's I just need to confirm
All right. Because as as it.
the policy, right?
So that I I do not decide on that if
that's where.
Yeah, as it stands,
if even if I don't do the grad assignment,
I'm still getting an A+ year right as it
is.
So I was wondering if I if I don't do it
as if I still get.
I you know you I I mean I I think you you
need to do that grad.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah,
hopefully that I answer your question.
All right. Thanks. Thanks.
All right? Yep. Bye.
Bye.